---
title: php-fpm配置
author: admin
type: post
date: 2010-12-15T08:36:12+00:00
url: /archives/6904
IM_contentdowned:
 - 1
categories:
 - 服务器
tags:
 - php-fpm

---
`

All relative paths in this config are relative to php's install prefix

Pid file

/usr/local/logs/php-fpm.pid

Error log file

/usr/local/logs/php-fpm.log

Log level

notice

When this amount of php processes exited with SIGSEGV or SIGBUS ...

10

... in a less than this interval of time, a graceful restart will be initiated.

Useful to work around accidental curruptions in accelerator's shared memory.

1m

Time limit on waiting child's reaction on signals from master

5s

Set to 'no' to debug fpm

yes

Name of pool. Used in logs and stats.

default

Address to accept fastcgi requests on.

Valid syntax is 'ip.ad.re.ss:port' or just 'port' or '/path/to/unix/socket'

127.0.0.1:9000

Set listen(2) backlog

-1

Set permissions for unix socket, if one used.

In Linux read/write permissions must be set in order to allow connections from web server.

Many BSD-derrived systems allow connections regardless of permissions.

0666

Additional php.ini defines, specific to this pool of workers.

/usr/sbin/sendmail -t -i

1

Unix user of processes

nobody

Unix group of processes

nobody

Process manager settings

Sets style of controling worker process count.

Valid values are 'static' and 'apache-like'

static

Sets the limit on the number of simultaneous requests that will be served.

Equivalent to Apache MaxClients directive.

Equivalent to PHP_FCGI_CHILDREN environment in original php.fcgi

Used with any pm_style.

128

Settings group for 'apache-like' pm style

Sets the number of server processes created on startup.

Used only when 'apache-like' pm_style is selected

20

Sets the desired minimum number of idle server processes.

Used only when 'apache-like' pm_style is selected

5

Sets the desired maximum number of idle server processes.

Used only when 'apache-like' pm_style is selected

35

The timeout (in seconds) for serving a single request after which the worker process will be terminated

Should be used when 'max_execution_time' ini option does not stop script execution for some reason

'0s' means 'off'

0s

The timeout (in seconds) for serving of single request after which a php backtrace will be dumped to slow.log file

'0s' means 'off'

0s

The log file for slow requests

logs/slow.log

Set open file desc rlimit

51200

Set max core size rlimit

0

Chroot to this directory at the start, absolute path

Chdir to this directory at the start, absolute path

Redirect workers' stdout and stderr into main error log.

If not set, they will be redirected to /dev/null, according to FastCGI specs

yes

How much requests each process should execute before respawn.

Useful to work around memory leaks in 3rd party libraries.

For endless request processing please specify 0

Equivalent to PHP_FCGI_MAX_REQUESTS

500

Comma separated list of ipv4 addresses of FastCGI clients that allowed to connect.

Equivalent to FCGI_WEB_SERVER_ADDRS environment in original php.fcgi (5.2.2+)

Makes sense only with AF_INET listening socket.

127.0.0.1

Pass environment variables like LD_LIBRARY_PATH

All $VARIABLEs are taken from current environment

$HOSTNAME

/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin

/tmp

/tmp

/tmp

$OSTYPE

$MACHTYPE

2

`


如果内存较小，可以考虑使用以下修改：
将启动的php-cgi进程数由原来的128个改为5个：
5
将TCP模式改为Unix Socket模式：

/tmp/php-cgi.sock