---
title: '事件ID2003: W3SVC服务2003错误的解决办法'
author: admin
type: post
date: 2011-03-29T00:47:25+00:00
url: /archives/8216
IM_contentdowned:
 - 1
categories:
 - 服务器

---
应用程序日志发现有警告信息如下：

事件 ID: 2003
描述:”W3SVC” 服务的性能库 “C:\WINDOWS\system32\inetsrv\w3ctrs.dll” 的配置信息 同在注册表中保存的受信任性能库信息不匹 配。此库中的函数不会作为受信任函数处理。有关更多信息，请参阅在 http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/events.asp 的帮助和支持中心。

原因及解决方法：


SYMPTOMSAfter you install Windows 2000 on a drive that uses the FAT or FAT32 file system (that was formatted during the installation process) and install Internet Information Services (IIS) in the same Setup process, event ID 2003 warning messages may appear in the Application event log when you start System Monitor and add counters. This issue does not occur with NTFS drives that do not have a service pack, if the FAT or FAT32 drive is formatted before you run Windows 2000 Setup, or if you add IIS later. The event ID 2003 warning message has the following text:
The configuration information of the performance library “C:\\WINNT\\system32\\w3ctrs.dll” for the “W3SVC” service does not match the trusted performance library information stored in the registry. The functions in this library will not be treated as trusted.

The configuration information of the performance library “C:\\WINNT\\system32\\infoctrs.dll” for the “InetInfo” service does not match the trusted performance library information stored in the registry. The functions in this library will not be treated as trusted.

The configuration information of the performance library “C:\\WINNT\\system32\\aspperf.dll” for the “ASP” service does not match the trusted performance library information stored in the registry. The functions in this library will not be treated as trusted. RESOLUTIONTo resolve this problem, run the following commands at a command prompt in the %SystemRoot%\\System32 folder to unload and reload the IIS performance dynamic-link libraries (DLLs). After you run these commands, the warning messages are not logged:

> unlodctr w3svc
> unlodctr msftpsvc
> unlodctr asp
> unlodctr inetinfo
> lodctr w3ctrs.ini
> lodctr ftpctrs.ini
> lodctr axperf.ini
> lodctr infoctrs.ini

运行命令后问题解决